= credativ puppet module template

This is a template for a module in the style of most credativ modules.
It uses parameterized classes and params_lookup to support multiple backends
for parameters (e.g. included params file and hiera).

== Template usage
In order to use the template for a new module, copy the whole template
directory to a new folder with the desired name. Then proceed as following:

1. Replace __module__ in manifests/*.pp and examples/* with the intended 
   module name. 
   Example:

     sed -i 's/__module__/your_intended_modulename/g' manifests/*.pp examples/*

2. Edit and add files as needed.

3. Make sure the main class has defaults for its parameters in
   manifests/params.pp

4. Make sure to add proper documentation to all directly used classes and
   replace this README with a file documenting the module and its usage.

== Module usage
This part describes the usage of modules created with this template.
Its probably best used as a template for your own documentation.

=== Requirements
This module template requires the params_lookup function as found in the example42
puppi module (https://github.com/credativ/puppet-example42lib)

=== Usage
This module template uses parameterized classes. However, to make it work
well with ENCs and to support hiera as an external data store, it uses a
special function to define defaults for each parameter.
That way, there are several ways to feed parameters into classes created
with this module.

==== Top-Level variables / Hiera
In this case the argument name in the class needs to be prefixed with
the module name. For example, if a module has a parameter use_xy it can
be pre-declared like this:

    $modulename_use_xy = $value

The same naming scheme works if parameters are defined in hiera.

Just *be* *aware* of global parameters: Modules may declare a parameter
as global. In this case it is not prefixed with the module name.
That usually makes sense for variables which are shared between various
different modules.

==== Parameters 
Obviously passing the plain parameters as argument to the class definition
works too:

    class { 'modulename':
        use_xy => $value
    }

In that case no prefixing with the module name is required.

==== Defaults
If no value is specified, in none of the mentioned data sources, modules
refer to default values. Those are defined in modulename::params
(manifests/params.pp). Each module shall define the most sensible defaults.


